[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> For those of you that
really appreciate touching
the qualities of the compassion
of your heart would find that
the circumstances tend to
make you protect your heart.
I encourage you to just
look around where you are
and listen and find a way
in which you can reach out
to be there for someone
else, but the practice
of kindness of
compassionate action
is something that draws
you out of yourself.
I find that because of
what I have projected out,
people will come to me and
present something extremely
pressing, and profound,
and deep, quickly,
like the loss of a child
or something like that.
And I can be standing there
filled with my own self, stuff,
inadequacy, arrogance,
insecurity, studying,
planning, whatever it is.
And I find that the realness
of their demand on my heart
demands that I let go.
It pulls me out of myself.
And I think that the
opportunity to be with children
in a way that is reaching
out, to be with elders, to be
with the sick, to be with
people in any way disadvantaged,
it pulls you out of yourself.
It pulls you into yourself.
It pulls you into the
deeper truth of your being,
because at that
point, what can you
offer that other person other
than the purest thing you
have to offer?
How could you offer any less?
How could you do it?
I mean, for me being in
the Saver Foundation,
for example, because
of the nature
of what a foundation
that is there
to try to relieve
a little suffering
is like, you become much more
aware of the massive nature
of suffering.
And the reactions to that, at
first, it's so overwhelming.
You want to hide.
You want to go
into denial again.
And then when you hold
hands with each other
and you get so that
you can stay open
facing the inability of you
to take away all suffering.
Most people are afraid that
if they look at what is they
will break.
It'll be too much for you.
And I would say it is too much
for who you think you are.
It is not too much
for who you are.
And so I invite you to open to
the suffering of the universe,
knowing that you can
only do what you can do.
And that if you do what
you can do, but only
with a sense of frustration,
because you can't do more,
what you are transmitting with
the very thing you are doing
is that frustration.
While if you're
quiet, you see the web
of suffering in the universe.
You see yourself.
You see all the
others, you see the web
of compassion in the universe.
I mean, I'm on the good guy
mailing list just like you.
And there are hundreds and
hundreds of requests for help.
And I go through
them, and there's
no rational way I can
decide, no way I can do that.
And I let my responses
change from year to year.
I just feel my way through.
And one of them pulls.
And one of them
doesn't, but I know
that that one pulled for me.
And that one pulled
for someone else.
And that we are part of
the family of compassion.
[MUSIC PLAYING]